.TH EVBT 1
.SH NAME
evbt \- An Event-B tool with which you can inspect,document and generate code from an Event-B system.

.SH SYNOPSIS
evbt codegen [options] <language> <machine.bum>

evbt console [options] { <dir> }

evbt docgen  [options] <format> <dir>

evbt docmod  [options] <format> <source_file> <dest_file> { <dir> }

evbt show    [options] <format> <dir> <part_identifier>*

evbt help

evbt license

.SH DESCRIPTION

Evbt reads a directory with Event-B files created by the Rodin tool. It can then show the contents
of the directory using the \fBshow\fR command, generate documentation using the \fBdocgen\fR command
or generate code using the \fBcodegen\fR command.

There is also a \fBconsole\fR command that can be used to interactively examine the parsing of formulas
and the machines and contexts.

.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS

\fB\--verbose\fR for some more information on what it is doing

\fB\--debug=all\fR for a lot of information, debugging a can be enabled for different parts of evbt.

\fB\--ll\fR to list all modules that can be enabled.

.SH codegen

The codegen command generates source files based on the project directory.
The sources contains the generated code from the specified <machine> inside <dir>.

\fBc++\fR  generates a <project_name>.h and a <project_name>.cc file.
.br
\fBjava\fR generates a <project_name>.java and a <project_name>Implementation.java file.
.br
\fBjavascript\fR generates a <project_name>.js file.
.br
\fBsql\fR generates a <project_name>.sql file.
.br

Examples:

To generate Elevator.h and Elevator.cc from the Refinement4FinalImplementation.bum file
stored in workspace/ElevatorProject:
.br
\fBevbt codegen c++ Elevator workspace/ElevatorProject Refinement4FinalImplementation\fR

.SH console

The console command enters an interactive mode where you can type formulas
and have them parsed. Type \fBhelp\fR for instructions within the console.
You can also request additional instructions on a command: \fBhelp show\fR

.SH docgen

The docgen command generates file(s) with the <project_name> that contains the documentation
for the <dir> containing Event-B files. The supported languages are:

\fBtex\fR generates a <project_name>.tex file.

\fBhtmq\fR generates a <project_name>.htmq file which can then be converted into a html file.

Examples:

Generate tex documentation for the entire ElevatorProject:
.br
\fBevbt docgen tex Elevator workspace/ElevatorProject\fR

.SH docmod

The docmod command reads the <source> file and looks for the tags like
\fBEVBT(...)\fR and executes the ... as if it had been typed in the console
and stores the resulting output in the document.

Examples:

Inject generated documentation into a tex-document \fBarticle.tex\fR and store the result
into \fBfinal.tex\fR:
.br
\fBevbt docmod tex article.tex final.tex Elevator workspace/ElevatorProject\fR

.SH show

The show command outputs the whole Event-B system (or parts of it) to the terminal.
The output can be formatted using the styles:

\fBplain\fR for plain unicode, no colors, only spaces as formatting.

\fBterminal\fR uses ANSI codes to set colors and spacing.

\fBtex\fR for generating tex snippets for inclusion into another document.

\fBhtmq\fR for generating htmq snippets for inclusion into another document.

Examples:

To show the entire project do:
.br
\fBevbt show terminal Elevator workspace/ElevatorProject\fR

To show only the moveUp event inside the Elevator.bum file:
.br
\fBevbt show terminal Elevator workspace/ElevatorProject Elevator.moveUp\fR

To render as tex a single guard inside a specific event inside a specific machine:
.br
\fBevbt show tex Elevator workspace/ElevatorProject Elevator.moveUp.grd_2 > moveup_grd_2.tex\fR

.SH help

The help command gives information on the other commands.

.SH license

The license command prints the license text for evbt.


.SH AUTHOR
Written by Fredrik Öhrström.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2021 Viklauverk AB
